Helloooo

If you're reading this, congrats on looking at this things source code. I made this file to breathe a little life into this project. Stuff sells better when theres stories attached anyways. This file covers entries on every victory, loss, struggle, and ease along the way so if you're bored of scrolling through endless files, you can read this if you want.

PROJECT START: 10/5/26

At the time of writing this, im about 5 days from finishing my Freshman year of Highschool (yay) and I needed a way to make money. I'm just gonna be super transparent here, the original focus of this project was a way to have a flow of cash. Personally, I don't like trading time for money so id rather sell solutions. The amount you can make is limited to how long you work in a corporate environment whereas for me, its limited to how well I can market this. In lieu of an actual name, im just gonna call this project the doohickey--not a doodad or a gadget because yes theres a difference--though gadget might work but its an umbrella term for doohickey-adjacent stuff.

The reason I chose to make the doohickey over anything else I could've made really boils down to two things: I'm good at engineering and I like screwing with corpos who overcharge for super simple devices like Flukes--which is a $1,200 network tester that just says "yeah... the internet is working here."

As for a better explaination, I made a portable RPi system by throwing together 3 18650 batteries, a 3S BMS, Buck Converter, MCP3008, Joystick, LCD Screen, and a rocker switch I found in my garage. I did this mainly cause I didn't like my schools 'No cellular device' rule so I fixed it. I'm not gonna get into the specifics but an RPi doesn't use a cellular modem nor is it a telecommunications device. Additionally, this is one project to add on to the stack of ones for a program I wanna get into at my local Univeristy. Basically, I was petty enough to make a pseudo-phone because the school had no rules against it. I then realized if I refine this concept enough, I can make a tool that can service anyone in almost any field.

This leads to my love of open-software. In order to make it work in almost any field, the right to repair lies exclusively in the hand of YOU. I have provided every single file, model, and experience in this repo so go ham. One precaution though is that designing this for this degree of user-end freedom comes with a big trade-off of fragility. You can change almost every aspect of this but if you brick it, thats on you man. Sorry not sorry. I plan on throwing in a few polyfuses to give you a grace period for your tomfoolery but dont go shoving 12V though a data pin. I like to place the power of the product in the people(because you bought it with your money)because I love tinkering with thinks and modifying systems so I build you a lil sandbox where you do just that but also I can justify not taking repairs. If a 14 year old kid can design a system like this, i'm positive you can fix it. I even provide the projects files, BOM, and software so go nuts. I enjoy knowing that people are using my stuff to tinker, experiment, and learn.

Another thing is the wierd corporate psycological warfare. I'm have no idea how they can convince business to buy stuff marked at like 300x production cost but whatever black magic they use is working hella good. An added goal with putting power in the consumer is to take power from the people exploting the consumer. I remember hearing something where in the early 1900s, every lightbulb company came together to make their product worse so customers kept coming back. I hate how thats become a standard in consumerism because instead of serving your customer, you become a wallet leech. If I can develop a tool versatile and adaptable enough, I may be able to at least show people that it's entirely possible to make your own solutions. You don't need a corpo big-wig telling you "you NEED my product" 24/7. I think the one exception there is to this is scienfic stuff. The basic principles behind stuff like a fluorometer is easy--I even made one at home with an LED, LDR, and an Arduino--it's just that the extra fortune comes as a precision tax. Lab grade Qubit Fluorometers are like 3 grand because you need super duper specific parts, wavelengths of light, calibrated photodiodes, etc. With sciencey stuff, you're normally using fine-tuned physics in conjunction with electronics and a ton of math. A Fluke just is a wireless ethernet reader that tells you what is and isnt recieving a signal.
